From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 18.
Recorded live Wednesday, June 18th, 2008. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by. Tellerik already controls the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com and by
the code better blog network,
delivering tried and true solutions
to real world problems for
building better software online at
dot com. Support is
also provided by.net developers journal
the world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks with authors, Mary
and Tom Poppendieck about lean
software development. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
I'm sitting here in Oslo,
Norway with Mary and Tom
Poppendieck, author of a couple
of books that continue to
sell well about lean thinking
and software development. Thank you
so much for sitting down
with me today. I know
you have a lot of
thoughts about this, and we've
had some pretty spirited discussions
in the hallways and on
a couple of agile panels
during the agile panel this
morning, I made the comment
about using success as a
metric and a, and Mary,
you, you jumped all over
me about the definition of
success. And I thought that
was really interesting. Can you
say a little something about
that? Sure. There's this report
called the chaos report. It's
put out by the Standish
group it's been put out
since maybe early nineties every
year. It tells those of
us in software development, how
terrible we are. And it
says that if you look
at projects, a huge percentage
of projects are either not
on time or not in
scope or not in budget
and therefore they're failures. So
therefore we in software development
are failures. So that report
defines success as on time
on budget and in scope.
And I think that's the
wrong definition of success. And
as I heard a few
hints of on time and
budget as success from you,
I challenged the concept. I
think success has to do
with making sure that you
have a business success. For
example, if it's a commercial
project that you develop something
that does what it is
that the business needs that
creates, for example, a product
that has good market share
has good profitability. If it's
in the private at minimum,
there was a reason for
which this project was funded,
is that reason accomplished. And
I don't think there's necessarily
a correlation between cost schedule
and scope and true success
of a project. It seems
that all the developers are
told is their goal is
to be done by a
certain date, seems like that.
Should the developers be worried
about the business like that?
They certainly shouldn't. I developed
products for three of them
and we had product teams.
They were somewhere between a
half, a dozen and 30
people. And the charter was
to develop new products and
put them on the market.
The team was expected as
a team to figure out
what the market really needed
to create a, a profit
and loss statement, which showed
whether or not it would
be profitable To then decide
what kind of features should
be in it. When was
the right time to introduce
it to the market. And
the team was judged based
on whether or not a
year later, they had a
profitable P and L for
the actual product in the
market. That means that everybody
on the team is involved
in figuring out what's really
important. What isn't important, whether
it happens to be schedule
or whether it happens to
be meeting a, a show
date or, or whatever. But
the team is a group
decides, what are we really
trying to do? Because success
is defined at a higher
level than the derivatives of
cost schedule scope. Very few
organizations really want software. They
have a problem that they
want solved. They have a
opportunity they want to take
advantage of if they could
solve that problem without software
so much the better, if
they could solve, take advantage
of that opportunity without software
so much the better it
is, problem solution that has
a value. It is exploding.
The opportunity has that has
value. And if the software
is not developed with regard
to effectively and efficiently and
profitably, addressing the opportunity, addressing
the problem, we're looking at
totally wrong criteria for success.
Okay. That's interesting. I've always
had this, this phrase that
I've thrown out when, when
arguing with people in my
contemporaries about this idea of,
well, you know, successes is
my metric and now you've
kind of thrown my whole
concept of what I thought
success was on its ear.
So now I'm wondering what
are my metrics? What am
I able to measure? And
then point at and say,
we did good, or we
did not do well. So
I have this theory, it's
called measure up and you
have a bunch of measurements.
Let's just take cost, schedule
scope. Those are interesting measurements
and you accomplish them all.
And yet stuff falls between
the cracks, say quality, say
customer satisfaction. And he's like,
Whoa, maybe cost, schedule and
scope. Weren't the right things,
because guess what? Quality wasn't
there, customer satisfaction. Isn't there.
So now what do you
do? Do you measure five
things instead of three things,
then how do you figure
out which one's more important?
So when you start getting,
going from three measurements to
five measurements, the theory with
measure up is you have
too many measurements and you
don't know which one's important.
And given a team, anybody
can take their pick. So
your measurements are at too
low a level. So you
need to go up one
layer and say what single
system level measurement we'll measure.
All these things, cost, schedule,
scope, quality customer satisfaction in
a single measurement, instead of
a whole bunch of, you
know, instead of going from
an iron triangle to an
iron Pentagon, you want a
single higher level measurement. So
the higher level of measurement
in a software development would
be whether or not there
is a business success, whether
or not, for example, in
our company, you had a
profitable P and L after
a year, that's a higher
level measurement. You have to
have the right goals for
cost and schedule and scope
and quality and customer satisfaction,
but how you trade those
off against each other is
determined by whether or not
the higher level measure Munis
achieved. And I think people
who develop software are smart
enough when they're sitting in
their team to be challenged
with a higher level goal
and figure out what are
the trade offs we need
to make in order to
reach the higher level goal,
they don't need that interpreted
for them through lower level
measurements. They can in fact,
be challenged to meet the
higher level measurement. And in
fact, the company's more likely
to get what they really
want when they ask for
what they really not want.
Not proxy measurements. Should we
be ignoring certain measurements? Are
you saying, I'm trying to
understand if you're saying we
should roll measurements up or
we should be simply just
not measuring some things and
thinking about the big picture
I'm on a product development
team. Cause they did a
lot of product development at
three M some involve software.
Some did not. And let's
say that the marketing guy
says there's a show and
it's June 15th and this is
an annual show. And if
we don't show this in
our annual show, it's going
to be a year before
we can really put it
on the market. And he
makes that plea to the
team. Now this team wants
a successful product that starts
selling soon, and they get
the fact that this is
not an artificial deadline. This
has to happen. And then
the quality person says you
can't be showing something at
a show that's junk. That's
worse than showing it at
all. And then the people
get the fact that, yes,
this is also true. Now,
how do you take these
tensions? We don't have a
quality product. We have a
deadline. And how do you
come to some sort of
balance between those that works?
So then maybe you say
amongst the team members, what
can we do at high
quality that will give the
right impression to those in
the market, but maybe not
be a complete product? What
can we do at the
demo? Suddenly people are engaged
in saying, how do we
make sure that we have
something in the show and
make sure that what we
show is high quality and
not mislead the customers that
something is available, that isn't
available? What can we do?
And if you get a
group of 10 smart people
that care deeply about that
product being successful, sorting those
tensions out, you're going to
get the best resolution. If
you have somebody that isn't
deeply engaged and doesn't know
the details of the trade
offs, trying to figure it
out, you actually are unlikely
to reach the bar. So
I it's identifying the tensions
and trying to find the
balance that in that kind
of spider graph of these
different tensions, rather than looking
at metrics like tests passed
and number of successful builds
and these kinds of things
that we spend so much
time focusing on, Well, you
have one test to pass,
but which tests, maybe only
this set of tests are
the ones that need to
pass for the show. Maybe
that set of tests can
pass after the show Because
the tensions are going to
change on June, June 16th, A
smart team of a dozen
people that are putting a
product on the market. At
least this my experience having
led, some of these teams
can make good decisions about
how to solve these inherent,
you know, conflicts between different
areas of the company, the
quality people, you know, it
probably never want to have
product on the market and
marketing people would never want
anything having to be developed.
And there has to be
some balance between all of
the different competing forces and
trade offs and a team
is the best group of
people to balance those trade
offs and make the best
possible, shot that as a
group, they can figure out
to hit the market with
a profitable. It seems like
there's these parallel. I'm trying
to visualize this, but you
know, like there's, there's these
parallel worlds where there's any
there's, there's what the developer's
perception of things and how
the developers providing value and,
and, and what they think
the life cycle of the
software is. And then there's
this larger overarching value proposition
where the, what the business
is providing of which the
software is a small, a
small bit, are those competing,
or they run each other
parallel. They should be the
same. The developers should be
well aware of the overall
life cycle. The language that
we'll use in talking about
software often uses the phrase,
the business know the implication
of saying, well, we have
the team and we need
cooperation from the business implies
that the team is not
part of the business. The
team should be thinking our
business, not the, the very
concept of requirements. For example,
implies a handoff, a handover
from someone in the business,
telling us what to do.
And our only responsibility is
to do it. If it
is our business, then we
collaborate with others in our
business to solve problems, to
come up with solutions, to
identify the right functions, the
right capabilities that will profitably
produce a valuable solution for
the market, for the business
process we're supporting or whatever.
It seems that in the
projects and the PR and
the companies that I've worked
on, we have had this
sense of disconnectedness where there's
the techies that are in
the back room somewhere, or
they're kept in the basement
and brought out occasionally. And
they really are separate from
the business. Is that part
of software, culture? Why have
we been told as connected
for you? It's worked for
other poorly? I would say.
And interestingly, when we started
getting into agile methodologies and
people started using this concept
of collective ownership, it started
to get people a little
more excited, but then they
started saying collective code ownership
rather than ownership in the
larger sense. And we were
still disconnected. So business, There
is this group of people
in a department in many
companies called it. Okay. And
very often it's a separate
organization from the business in
that same businesses, there will
be marketing and there will
be finance and there will
be, you know, development and
stuff. And for some reason
or other, it seems to
be off in some other
world. I think it's due
to the fact that this
was a new technology and
people in businesses didn't know
how to deal with it,
but heavens were long past
that anymore. And it isn't
necessary for it to be
separate from the business. And
I'm in a product company
where product either contain software
or is a software, either
retail package or commercial software.
There is no excuse for
the software development folks to
be separate from the business.
They make the product in
an, in a bigger company.
You want to look very
closely as to why you
take it people and think
of them as separate from
the business. So I think
it has a street in
it, organizations being sort of
a new techie area. Well,
they were a fad, right?
Everyone's getting their ID, they're
getting an email and now
people are talking about removing
it altogether, outsourcing it into
the cloud When it is
routine. I mean, how many
ways are there to do
email? How innovative can your
email system be versus others?
There's a real good reason
for that. When some types
of automation, software, our core
competitive advantages of the company,
then that's not such a
good idea, because if you
sell off your development capability
for core competencies, then anybody
can copy it. So there's
a very big distinction between
what I'll call core competencies
of a company. And they
will often be software based
or technical based. And when
it is something totally routine,
which is as what did,
as I've heard, is that
sort of like lights on
stuff. Yeah. It was a
lights on moment that we
had at a, at a,
at a large banking company
that I worked on was
what someone had made the
comment. We're trying to put
some accounts in a grid,
in a web browser. And
the, that was the requirement,
but the accounts in the
grid and one of the
young men wanted to make
the world's greatest grid control.
And the reminder by our
very wise CTO at the
time was that are we
in the business of doing
banking software or making grid
controls? And he said, well,
I can buy one for
$500. And let's say you're
a hundred dollar an hour
worker. You have five hours
to make the world's greatest
grade control, or I will
buy one. And then that
was the end of that
discussion. But that reminder of
the core competency is that
that maybe we have a
bunch of software engineers who
are thinking about software, and
then they are suddenly reminded
that software is not what
we're trying to accomplish here
today is such a lights
on lights on Mars. And
so the software group that
remains in the business is
there because they have, they
are developing a core competency.
That's very fundamental to that
business success. And it's very
important to have them deeply
engaged in that. Otherwise, why
not have somebody else in
some other company do the
work? Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman with a word from
our sponsor. Do you know
how to build web 2.0
Ajax applications with web 1.0
components? You really can't. If
you want to do the
next generation web applications you'll
need next generation components. Just
like the ones that our
friends at Telerik have got
their rad controls for ESPN
at Ajax. It's a huge
pack of web controls built
on top of asp.net, Ajax,
that lab previously impossible performance
interactivity to your next project.
The new controls mirror, the
Ajax API from asp.net. So
development is really straightforward. The
client scripts are shared. So
loading time is not a
problem. If you just set
a couple of properties and
you'll be able to automatically
bind a web services for
really efficient operation, the new
rad editor from ESPN Ajax,
Telerik loads up to four
times faster than before. And
the new rad grid handles
thousands of records and just
milliseconds, but as always, it's
best to try for yourself.
So you can visit
dot com slash ASP, net
Ajax, and download a trial.
Thanks a lot. This week's
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by code better.com. The
code better.com blog network it's
made up of over 20
industry leaders and speakers who
are passionate about delivering tried
and true solutions to real
world problems for building better
software. These guys are not
only our sponsor this week,
but they're also my friends,
the code better blog network.
It's where industry leaders blog.
You can find them@codebetter.com as
well as devilish Bus dev,
L I C I O
dot U S. So our
agile methodology is a way
to get, is that a
gateway that we can get
people more engaged? Is there
some, some aspect about agile
that's going to allow people
to get more engaged or
is this just a, a
passing phase? Okay. I'm not
sure how to answer that
because even agile methods have
oftentimes been named only at
the development organization. All the
agile methods do insist on
frequent, continuing contact between the
customer and the builders between
people who have the problem
are responsible for addressing the
problem and those who are
going to build software to
address the problem. But I
don't think it goes nearly
far enough because it's still
all the agile approaches still
build in a handoff from
one or more people who
are solely accountable for the
business side, the product design
side. We still call those
requirements, which is very curious,
because they are not requirements.
They are simply designed decisions,
problem, solution, design decisions made
by somebody else that they
could hand it off. And
the developers don't get the
question then that's not healthy.
Is this a, is this,
is this a problem about
this different kinds of knowledge?
I mean, the idea that
there's the C level executive
that has some knowledge, some
understanding of the business or
some skill that I don't
have as a developer while
he can't program. There's this
idea, you know, it's almost
like there's the, there's the
monks on high that have
the technology to create books
and the printing press. And
then there are the plebs,
or don't have any ability
to read. W we, we
keep the computers out of
their hands, cause they'll just
hurt themselves with that knowledge.
And they keep us under
their iron thumbs. So let
me give a different picture
of a corporate structure. Okay.
The fact is that the
folks on high don't have
either the knowledge or the
capability to figure out in
detail what needs to happen
in order to make the
business successful and good, good
people on high that are
trying to lead a company,
understand that. And they understand
that the way to have
the company successful over the
long term is to take
all those intelligent. What did
you call them plebs and
make sure that they leveraged
their intelligence to do new
creative stuff and to think
through problems and stuff like
that. So what you are,
look, what I'm looking for
in a company is a
structure, which in which the
management team understands that what
they really need to do
is provide the leadership so
that all those smart people
can be properly organized and
properly headed in the right
direction to create all kinds
of new ideas and new
benefit for the company. Now
I've seen companies work very
well like that. Not all
companies work like that, but
when companies have good management
that knows how to be
leaders and enable the people
doing the work to be,
to be smart about what
they're doing and to, to
further the interest of the
company. And everybody's engaged in
that, then you can have
quite an interesting company. If
you have people who are
buying labor for money, okay.
And paying you to do
what they say, well, that's
interesting, but that's not going
to give them anywhere near
as good as The company
I've done engagements with. Let's
just say, large consulting companies
that might come in and
we might pay them to,
I like to say, we
pay them to whiteboard. And,
and what problem are we
trying to solve by bringing
these, these, these large consulting
companies in, I mean, there's
the kinds that come and
whiteboard for money, and then
they leave. There's the kinds
where we're registered, we're renting
or renting them for a
while. You know, using there,
we need more bodies. We
need, you know, someone with
a pulse needs to come
in. So at, at our
company, the people who were
expected to know the most
about their business were the
people in the business. And
there was always the thought
that outsiders couldn't conceivably know
as much or do as
much when we implemented just
in time in our factory
in 19, early 1980s at
3m, there was a management
team. I was on it
or about eight of us.
And we needed to have
a whole different concept of
manufacturing because our competitors are
making stuff much cheaper than
we could make it for.
And we had to do
something very different. Fortunately for
us there weren't consulting firms
that could tell us what
to do. We could read
a book, we could get
a consultant in for the
day to give us some
new ideas. And that was
about it. And as group,
we read some available stuff
we thought through and we
figured out, what is this
stuff that we're learning? How
does it work in our
world? And we changed the
whole concept of how we
did manufacturing. And we did
it as a small management
team. We were maybe young
enough and brash enough to
think that we were smart
enough to do it. And
we were successful. And what
I think is that what
you should be looking for
is ideas, ways to think
inside of a company, but
in the end, the company
and its management team has
to change themselves. If they
think they can hire some
people to come in and
solve all their problems. Well,
you know, I'm not so
sure it's going to work.
When, when we brought, I
went from a company that
was a standard waterfall and
we brought in scrum and
we had a sense that
something was happening. There was,
we didn't want to get
too wrapped up in the
name, agile, and the idea
that We're going to be
successful just by virtue of
the fact that we're doing
this, but at least we
were doing something, yes. Was
this, how did it work
for you? The first few
iterations went, went poorly, but
it took about five years.
And, and they've got it
down to a nice a
meter. It seems to be
working well for the purposes
of delivering the kinds of
software that they want to
deliver. But after the consultants
left and after the software
packages that promise to do
everything correctly, you know, it
didn't work. It really came
down to, to people and
experience and getting a couple
of years of failure under
our, under our belts, call
it learning and learning. Is
that, is that just I'm
hearing that. That's just how
things work. You ha you,
you just have, there's no
book, there's no process. There's
no consultant that's going to,
to make this happen. There
are ideas that help steer
people in the right direction.
And, but if, but, but
if you can pay somebody
to come in and sort
out your business problems, so
can your competitor, if you
really want to be good
and, and be ahead of
the other folks in the
world, then you have to
have some underlying competencies that
only you and your company
can figure out. And if
you want to do something
that's new and unique, then
you have to figure out
how does this company that
we in this company know
better than anybody else? How
do these ideas work in
our environment and in our
world? Now that's not a
one day thing, it's a
journey. So you start out
with a idea and you
get that idea working, and
you're somewhat better. And then
you get, say, okay, now
what's our biggest problem. And
then you head down that
path and say, now it's
our biggest problem. And it's
a never ending constant improvement
journey. So there shouldn't ever
be an end, but it
would help if there was,
if, if there was a
direction set. So I think
ideas, books, that sort of
thing, help give people underlying
theories of what to do,
which way to head, but
for having somebody come in
and do it for you.
Well, they'll probably do it
to you instead. There are
maybe four things that a
consultant can be valuable for
at the lowest level. It's
simply capacity labor. If you
need more work done for
a while. So you hire
some extra hands at a
second level, a outsider can
bring in ideas, a fresh
perspective. Somebody who has been
to many organizations will see
your problems, your situation with
a different light than people
that have been in it
forever. Now, whether what they'll
see is right, or not
as something that only the
people inside the organization can
assess. And a third thing
is accelerate acquisition of new
skills that you can get
from a book you can
get from the manual, but
if you can benefit from
other people's mistakes, rather than
being forced to repeat them
all yourself, you can get
better, faster, but it isn't
going to solve your business
problems. You have to decide
which skills, which perspectives and
what capacity you need. And
the fourth I lumped two
together. I think that that,
that idea of understanding what
is this company good at?
What is our, what is
our core competency? It's such
a core competency become a
buzzword in itself, but it
really is true that a
nice company-wide reset to remind
ourselves what our, what we're
trying to accomplish is, is
really important in the idea
that no consultant is going
to come in and be
able to tell us what
our core competency is. That
really leads to a second
measure of success. We talked
earlier about success in terms
of achieving the business objective
of the product or the
business process that you're developing
software for. The second metric
is how rapidly and reliably
can you do this? How
effective are you at development?
Your capacity and capability needs
to continually improve. You had
made, we could have made
a comment to me, Mary,
about how you thought, and
I'm putting words in your
mouth. So, correct me if
I'm wrong, that it may
be the case that this
agile buzzword is a, is
a fat, Okay. So if
you go back through the
history of software and I've
been around in it for
a lot of times, so
it's not so hard for
me to do back when
I was developing software, we
didn't have this. In fact,
I didn't even hear of
this word called waterfall for
told them late nineties. So
when I was developing software
in the Late seventies, early
Sort of thing, and I
did process control software, We
did talk with our customers.
We build stuff in our
offices that was going to
be hooked to hardware. We
created simulators to test it
because we didn't want to
spend a whole lot of
time on site shaking it
down. We were told that
if the people in the
plant didn't like or use
our software, it wasn't their
fault. It was ours. So
we really needed to understand
what their problems were. We
were told once you deliver
software, the best indicator of
success is if the plant
asked for changes, because now
they suddenly have some idea
of what the software might
be able to do for
them. And they're asking for
more, if they don't ask
for any changes, they're probably
not even using it. So
this is a good deal.
And what you're trying to
do is deliver a starting
point where they will constantly
ask for more of this
good technology to help them
do their job better. And
you were always intimately involved
in software and its use
and the people who were
going to use it. And
that's my vision of software.
Then there were various types
of FAS, there was structured
programming and there was some
user programming and there was
fourth generation languages that were
going to save the world.
And then there was, Oh,
let's see, did the digital
objects and patterns, and yeah,
Because you're describing your relationship
with the plant and myself
as someone who hasn't been
in the business that long,
I started in 92, I'm
hearing you describe at what
I think of as being
agile onsite customer development. Does
that mean that we certainly
will all eventually be programming
lists again? So it'll just
be agile methodology and lists.
No, I don't think it
was Fortran that I did.
And I really hope that
people don't go back to
that or similar language. I
was just going to say
that, that, that have we,
if we simply come back
to exactly where we were
before, what's, what's supposed to
agile world look like, Well,
if you take a look
at, I don't care what
it is, whether it's objects
or agile or waterfall or
anything, I see these, these
things or CMM or CMI,
or you name it. These
are, these are what I
call fads that lasts for
like seven years. Guess what?
Seven years is a management
generation and they become the
great thing. That's going to
save the world. And then
after they turn out not
to save the world and
the next thing comes along
and it's going to be
the great thing. This is,
It's not a process of
continuous improvement though, or is
that, or is that Well,
one hopes, but you know,
in software, we seem to
have gone from one extreme
to the, another extreme and
back over to the other
extreme. So we don't ever
seem to land in the
middle Thus as the nature
of signwaves. Yeah, exactly. So
when I talk about fads,
I mean, swinging this pendulum
all the way before, one
side to the other, without
ever seeing the middle and
I I've come up with
some reasons why this happens
in software. Okay. So what
my I, my first reason
is it's silver bullet mentality,
especially from a management group
that doesn't get technology and
they're looking for some silver
bullet answer to whatever their
problem is and whatever the
latest and greatest thing out
there that's supposed to solve,
your problem is they're on
it. Okay. And if it
happens to be agile, they're
going to be on agile.
And if whatever, the next
thing is, they're going to
go for that. And yes,
if that's mentalities there, this
is a fad. And then
there's the somewhat better reason.
And this is what I'm
going to call the crisis
mentality. I went through a
time in our plant where
if we didn't change the
way we did things, we
were going to just have
to fold up and stop
making. Cause we had to
drop our prices. Crisis is
good because it gets people
to say, how do I
do something differently than what
I'm doing today and actually
get better results. So crisis
mentality is also a good,
is a good thing to
trigger people, to do something
new in generally, it's more
likely to lead to success.
Then the third one is,
and this is why I
think we always ended up
with a pendulum swing in
our world in software development.
There are natural tensions that
belong there. There's nothing wrong
with them. We need to
get work done, but we
need to have a structure
and architecture to do it
in. We need to start
putting stuff up. But on
the other hand, we need
to learn before we start
diving in, or we're going
to have a mess later
on, we live in a
complex world and people keep
wanting stuff. So we need
to be simple. But then
again, if we're too simple,
we don't give people what
they want. So there's a
very strong tension between different
extremes. And instead of trying
to figure out how to
take that tension to the
middle, we swing from one
into the other. So it
used to be that we
were doing all of the
stuff, which got the bad
name analysis paralysis. So now
we're into, well, let's not
do any analysis at all.
Well, Right. Which is agile
as an excuse to be
sloppy. So, so the, the
point is that there's a
natural tension between making stuff
happen and having the knowledge
to know which is the
right way to go. That's
gonna last in the long
run. The, the thing you
need to do is to
figure out how to not
compromise on the tension, but
honor it and come to
some middle ground that works
and, and, and plays the
two tension areas off against
the other and comes to
a good center where both
things are taken care of
the best that they can.
Now there's no magic recipe
for doing that because the
tensions in any given business
are going to be different.
I mean, the tensions, when
you're device developing software for
a medical device are very
different than when you're putting
a website up. And so
there's going to be different
like middle grounds or resolutions.
And so I think what
we need to do is
to figure out how to
use all of our brain
power, to come to some,
to recognize that there are
conflicting things that you don't
always do, things the same
way it's going to depend
upon the world, the environment
and stuff like that. There's
no hard and fast rule,
but there are things there
are extremes that we have
been, you know, we're tending
to go to. And what
we want to do is
end up balancing the really
important tensions in any given
environment so that we come
to the best resolution of
those and the companies that
can do that better than
others in their environment are
going to be the ones
that are going to win
To come back to the
idea of crisis. There are
two aspects to crisis. One
is the crisis that's forced
upon you by your, and
the other is the crisis
that you force on your
competitors. The second is the
one that you really should
be chasing the com so
good that your competitors face
the crisis. Now, there are
two ways of doing that.
One way is what they
really innovative, radical product that
will really grab the market.
Apple's very good at this.
The other way is by
getting very, very good at
the kind of product development
that you do buy, and
that is what agile offers
you as a much faster
way of creating software products.
Well, I hope that that
gives our listeners a lot
to think about. I know
it's given me a lot
to think about, and I
think I'm going to go
out and read a couple
of books on lean software
development. So thank you so
much, Tom and Mary Poppins
for sitting down and talking
to me today. Thanks guys.
Thank you very much. And
this has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .